Bob earns money.  He also spends it.  Bob is not very good at money.  He
spends a lot, and he earns a lot.  In fact, he spends so much he has *lots*
of different jobs; and he earns so much he has *lots* of expenditure.  Up
till now he's never known which was greater at any moment: the money he
spends, or the money he earns.  He hires you to find out.

Bob is also very canny.  To prove you can do it, he first hires you to sort
out this week's expenditures.

This week Bob spent £150.78 on groceries.  (Bob likes wine.  He also likes
Waitrose.  Waitrose likes Bob.  Bob does not like his credit card bill when
he goes to Waitrose too often.)   Also, he spent £15.93 in Starbucks, £17.99
at Joe's Hipster Coffee Emporium, £22 to have the shirt he spilt coffee over
at Joe's dry cleaned and £17.96 on bus fares.  He drove 47 miles, and pays
£1.51 per litre of petrol, but makes only 30 miles to the (British) gallon
(Bob has a performance car).  He pays £170 a month in council tax and £75 a
month in insurance, and he wants this included in the weekly total.  (Bob
spent these over the week, but doesn't care too much about which day, so he
wants you to consider outgoings on a weekly basis.)

??? Tip

    You probably decided to note those values down.  Note them down *in a
    spreadsheet*.  (If you thought of that, congratulations.)

Bob also works a lot. He works as a Judo instructor in the weekday evenings,
for 3 hours a week at £15 an hour. He works as a management consultant in the
day, between 9 and 5 with an hour off for lunch, and is paid £25 and hour
(after tax) to give confusing advice and tell companies they need to fire
people. He never tells them to fire *him*. Naturally. Also, he works sometimes
as a rugby referee. This Saturday he was paid a £50 flat fee for a game.

Bob only pays tax on his day job, but he has had a twinge of conscience.
He means to ask you for help calculating what he should pay.  For now he
wants you to prove your worth, by making a weekly accounts spreadsheet which
shows him at a glance what he has earned, what he has paid, and what portion
of his larger outgoings should be counted against this period.

Make such a spreadsheet.

??? Tip

    Organise your data with a column for incomings and a column for outgoings.
    That way you can avoid sign errors (typing negative numbers quickly gets
    dull).  Or you might want specific columns.  Use rows for dates.  Don't
    split your spreadsheet in two halfway down as though it were a paper sheet:
    it's easy to scroll and miss the division.
    
??? Help

    Start with what you know.  Bob has given you some things at a daily rate,
    and others weekly.  This is annoying, but very typical.  It's probably
    better to work daily and enter transactions against the last day (or first
    day) of the week.
    
    A 'Sundries' column will save you making a specific entry for *everything*
    if you decide to have specific columns.
    
    Use a formula to calculate the share of monthly expenses which should be
    counted this week.  Make the calculation *explicit*.  (Do you now need
    another column for the monthly rate?  How are you going to store it?  Where
    is it clearest?)
