Welcome to *Bob's Guide to Spreadsheets*.  Bob is an impecunious client who will
appear somewhat later; for now you are left with me.

This website is a spreadsheet tutorial with a difference: more specifically,
with two differences.  Firstly, it is free: it's just a static website.
Secondly, it is not written by an expert in spreadsheets, or even someone who
uses them very often.  (In fact, having viewed a few other tutorials prior to
writing this one, that might not be so unique.)  This tutorial exists for two
reasons: firstly, my wife asked for something of the kind, and when I couldn't
find one, I decided to write one (and to put it online so everyone can criticise
it).  Secondly, because although I do not use spreadsheets very often, I
encounter the spreadsheets of people who do very frequently, and I think most of
them fall into one of two conceptual mistakes:

- Spreadsheets are *not* programming environments.
- Spreadsheets are *not* large data entry tables where you can write down all
  the answers once you've worked them out.
  
The first error is generally encountered either in corporations where someone
(rarely the end user) has written a bunch of 'macros' in something horrible like
Visual Basic (the aptly named programming language of the Micro$oft Windoze
[Almost]Operating System), which get applied pretty haphazard to all kinds of
scenarios.  The problem here is that *the end user does not know how that macro
works* and _the programmer has generally not predicted that the end user would
format data like **that**_.  This stems from the real strength of spreadsheets:
they *don't* generally enforce a particular data arrangement.  In this course we
will not cover macros, but we will explore the question of why you might want to
avoid them in more detail.

The second error is encountered from people who couldn't work out how to
calculate xyz this particular time, got fed up trying, and wrote down the
answer.  Providing they wrote it down correctly everything is fine.  The problem
is when somebody else comes along and edits the sheet.  Likely they will expect
a 'total' or a 'conversion' column to auto update.  They might well not check.

!!! summary
This is a deliberately basic course.  We cover how to use spreadsheets
*explicitly*.  If you want everything to look clean and tidy, use a specialised package.

# Following the course

Worked examples are not (yet) provided.  However if you start at the beginning
and work through, everything should (hopefully) become clear.  In any case the
idea is not to show you how-to-click-on-this-it-of-the-window, but to get you to
work out how, *with your particular spreadsheet package* you would go about
implementing the exercises.

# Feedback

If you find a mistake or have a suggestion, open an
[issue](https://github.com/2e0byo/spreadsheets/issues) or [pull
request](https://github.com/2e0byo/spreadsheets/pulls) in the git repo for this
website.
